---
layout: post
title: Letter of an anonymus russian
subtitle: Trying to better understand the russian fabric in 2022
#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
social-share: true
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/moscowsnow.jpg 
#share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [politics, society, human understanding, world, russia]
---
A good friend asked me to share this letter. It does not neccessarily express my view.

This letter is written by a Russian, it is written by a political scientist who fought against the unrightful regime in order to stop the war. I send it to my beloved people of the West as I want to explain what’s going on in Russia right now, what the West is doing to Russia and why the current sanctions are unable to stop the war in Ukraine. I ask you to read this letter to the end and share it among western citizens because they have no idea what has been happening in Russia all along. The western perception of mentioned countries which have other cultures and different politics is twisted by wealthy and democratic experience.

Russia attacked Ukraine on February 24, shelling Ukrainian cities early in the morning, without warning or declaration of war. The same way the Nazis attacked the USSR in 1941. Any sane person will see this similarity. Russia announced the demilitarization and denazification of Ukraine. Russia decided to arrange it by destroying the houses of Ukrainians, killing defenseless civilians and children. The Russian authorities are war criminals who must be tried and punished to the fullest extent of the law. The Russians themselves are also responsible for what happened: blind, cowardly and divided, we are ready to turn a blind eye to massacres (even of our own compatriots) in order just to feel a little safer.

The West that I consider as Western governments (and I'm talking here only about them and not about ordinary citizens) is also to blame for the war - the US flirted with the Ukrainian authorities, the entire Western world ignored the occupation of Ukrainian territories by Russia, Russian interference in the affairs of Kazakhstan, support for the dictator Lukashenko and the fact that Russia started a war with Ukraine back in 2014. The blindness and slipperiness of the West is obvious. The fault and responsibility of the West for what is happening now in Ukraine is obvious. As well as the guilt and responsibility of the West for what happened and is happening with Russia. 

However, judging by the sanctions being adopted, now it is the Russians - the people least to blame for what is happening - who must shoulder all the burdens of ending the war and fighting the Russian authorities. All alone. Abandoned by everyone, even, God forgive me, by China; left in poverty and confusion about what to do and no will to fight for peace. This is the way the West takes responsibility for what it has done. But first things first.

The first thing I want to talk about is sanctions. Unfortunately, sanctions are a necessary measure, and we, the Russians, just need to admit it. We waged a war, and it brings havoc to each side involved. But are the sanctions that the West is now throwing on Russia, effective? What are these sanctions aimed at? Are these sanctions aimed at the consequences imagined by Western countries for Russian society, or at something more related to the reality in which Russians live? I repeat, sanctions are necessary, but are they the only things needed?

The West is sure that if Russia is cut off from a huge part of the world economy and the Russian economy is brought into default, then the Russians will raise their pitchforks against their government and rush to stop the war with Ukraine. Listen, do you have at least a single real expert on Russia in the West? Anyone? If there is, then listen to him, because this sanctions strategy was obviously invented by specialists in Western societies and aimed for Western society. Do you have any idea what socio-economic condition the Russians are in?

According to official data from Rosstat, 12% of citizens in Russia live in poverty. The poverty line runs on income of ~150 euros per month (~171 dollars per month). More than 50% of Russians live on an income of ~337 euros per month (~$385 per month). More than half of Russians (in fact, much more) never had the opportunity to travel abroad, study at a foreign university, did not have a subscription to Netflix, and even in their happiest dreams did not imagine buying a Western brand car. Here's the truth. These are the people you want to plunge into even greater poverty without offering anything in return. On one hand, I agree that the Russians must understand that there is a war going on, they must understand that all parties will have to pay for it, that we, as aggressors, must answer for what we have done to the people of Ukraine. But will the Russians be able to understand all this? Russians who ignored almost any chance to participate in politics, Russians who refused to take responsibility for the annexation of Crimea and enthusiastically praised Putin and the annexation? Russians who protect Tutberidze and her team, who keeps crippling children just to get more gold medals? Are you serious?

Russian society is a highly atomized and disunited society. This is a society with an overwhelming tolerance for violence. People do not trust each other, people hate each other, and if something happens to someone not so close, at best, they will say "He or she deserves this." This is Russian society. Russians did not become like that on purpose, it’s not because Russians are bad people, by no means. Russians are absolutely ordinary people, just like Americans, French, Swedes, Poles and everyone else. But Russian society is completely different.

For 70 years, the Soviet authorities had been deliberately, methodically destroying any civil connections between people, methodically killing people’s will to participate in politics and protect both their own and strangers. Ordinary people in Soviet Russia were accustomed to keeping silent, setting others up and caring only about themselves and, at best, about their family, when it came to interaction with the authorities.

It seems to me that the West perceives the Soviet period as an entertaining scarecrow, not realizing that Soviet totalitarianism and authoritarianism is the greatest socio-political catastrophe in the history of Russia. Soviet repressions, the Soviet social order is what could force people to hand over their parents, their children, their husbands and wives to be shot. Many resisted, many survived, many had a chance not to become cogs in a system of random and senseless violence. But most people did not manage to because of poverty, limited information, lack of freedom of movement, a powerful system of surveillance and millions of people repressed and killed by the Soviet authorities. And now we are left with a country and a society ruined, killed by the Soviet authorities. That's what the Soviet period was like. 

This is what Russian society is, this is who the Russians are. There is no civil society in Russia. We do not have extensive and strong horizontal social networks. All that Russia now has is a handful of amazing, very strong and courageous people, mostly young people, representatives of a new society and a new era - modern anti-war resistance. And no, other Russians who, in horror, diligently ignore what is happening, or those who in a frenzy kiss the feet of a bloody dictator and idolize war, are not third-class people in relation to the guys from the anti-war resistance, by no means. We need to understand here that this handful of understanding and struggling people are lucky to be educated. Lucky to be able to critically analyze information. They were lucky to be able to maintain empathy and conscience in the aggressive, cruel and impoverished Russian society, which the Russian authorities were systematically driving into such a state.

Most Russians are not lucky in anything. Except for being alive. And most Russians surmise that and value that. And do whatever it brings to just stay alive.

Has not a single expert on Russia told the governments of Western countries about this? The West did not know about this all these years, gladly accepting the investments of Russian oligarchs, officials and criminal businessmen who stole money from the ordinary Russians, those bastards who continued to kill our country and literally ourselves, the Russian people? Maybe because no one was interested? Money is money, business is business?

Your economies and states are built, among other things, on the bloody money of Russian bandits who killed and maimed their own fellow citizens.  And you were fine. You knew it, but chose to ignore it. Boris Nemtsov, Anna Politkovskaya, Valentin Tsvetkov, Sergei Yushenkov, Stanislav Markelov, Anastasia Baburova, Sergei Magnitsky, Anastasia Estemirova, Alexander Litvinenko, Paul Khlebnikov, Irina Slavina, Yuri Shchekochikhin, Nikolai Girenko, Mikhail Beketov, Boris Berezovsky and many others were murdered. You didn’t care, did you?

So, how is your business doing now? Nothing personal, huh? So, how are you gonna look into your taxpayers’ eyes now? Are you still fine with it? Do you finally begin to care?

Dear Western friends, who makes decisions on sanctions in your governments, is there at least one person there who understands political science and especially political sociology? Do you understand what usually happens to abruptly impoverished people with imperial consciousness, who are on the verge of shame from an unleashed and lost war, completely absorbed in state ideology, since they have no other sources of information? Does anyone know the history there? I am a history and social science teacher. I can give you a couple of lectures, but I'm afraid your politicians are tired of the history lessons from the Russians, so, organize yourself, please.

Dear citizens of Western countries, your media may not tell you this (as I can see by your expectations from the Russians), but let me tell you. Military censorship has been established in Russia. Responsibility for the media or public figures for the dissemination of "fakes" (any information that differs from the position of the authorities) is up to 15 years in prison. The websites of almost all Russian opposition media and many social networks, where the largest opposition audiences can be found, have been blocked. 24/7, shows on TV declare about why war is good, Russia is a great country, and Ukrainians are occupied be Ukrainian neo-Nazis. Russians, who have never been particularly involved in politics, who have absolutely no knowledge of information hygiene, are told that everything that differs from the position from the TV is a “fake”. Russian propaganda definitely knows what it does, and the way it does is very talented. So talented, that parents blame their own children for being "Nazis" and abandon them (it's not a figure of speech, it's my friends stories).

The vast majority of Russians do NOT know what is really happening in Ukraine, do not know about the real causes of the war. They are (been made) sure that we are saving Ukrainians, that Ukrainians greet Russian troops with flowers and words of gratitude. Those who suspect that something is wrong have their opposition-minded children or acquaintances patiently talking to them about the horrors of that war. Nevertheless, they still try to ignore what is happening and justify their “learned helplessness” by any means.

The Russians are ready to believe any infernal nonsense from the TV, because they have nowhere else to get information from. It is unbearable for them to believe that their position of non-participation in politics led them back to the 90s. It was the time they struggled to escape and they have been scaring the youth with it for the past 20 years .  Those destitute people do not know English and have never been abroad. They are uneducated, disunited, abandoned by everyone. Russians are trying to clutch on the only option that is simple, familiar and understandable to them from Soviet times - to believe the myth from TV. It’s a muth that will give them the opportunity to feel like someone else, to escape from this empty and sorrowful everyday life of an ordinary Russian. Only TV gives Russians an explanation they can understand, gives them acceptance and support, gives them a sense of unity, which is necessary to feel safe - the main value of Russians for over 100 years.

Russians believe TV or ignore the war, they are afraid to do anything, because Russians are scared as hell.  Because the Russians are beaten and tortured by the police in the police departments:
Because the Russians know that no one needs them in this society and no one will stand up for them. Russians are lonely, poor, embittered. No understanding of how to fight and protest. No civil society to help and support in this fighting.

I want you to know that Russia is occupied in some way by the siloviki (law enforcement officials) and people who are interested in continuing the violence inside and outside the country. The Russians are held hostage by them, without weapons and external and strong organized internal support. They are held hostage by butchers and murderers. People are trying to survive.

In this situation, people are happy to believe the propaganda. They could resist it if they could feel the consequences of the war. If they could, they would begin to feel the consequences of many years of their inaction and their civic irresponsibility. If only someone supported them and helped them, didn’t leave or abandon them. 

Such support networks are barely emerging inside the country: their creators are now being imprisoned, they are being threatened, they are being persecuted. They are just strongly shocked and disoriented: our country started a war, some activists had to leave their homes in an emergency, they (mostly young people) are doing a lot, but they can't do all of what has been missed for the last 20-30 years in several weeks. Despite this, people continue their struggle, but in conditions when the West begins to strike with some completely crazy and inhuman sanctions, this is no longer possible. Even the struggling Russian opposition now agrees that the West is playing against the Russians. Stop mindlessly imposing sanctions!

Forbid any universities to refuse scholarships and admission to study! On the contrary, offer Russians opportunities, lure them away.

Forbid stopping any scientific projects! On the contrary, offer opportunities for their expansion, poach scientists and research groups.

Forbid stopping any projects related to healthcare! Such deeds are successfully used by Russian propaganda to show that the West wants to kill us! On the contrary, expand opportunities, offer doctors internships, advanced training courses, occupy this space with your projects and opportunities! Then the Russian authorities will have to explain to their citizens why they do not want to give them opportunities to improve education, science, and even more so, healthcare.
Offer real help, humanitarian aid. Make the Russian authorities explain later why they do not want to accept it. The Russians are now in the face of a humanitarian catastrophe - medicines are running out, problems with food are starting to arise, and no one wants to help them here, except for the state! How are they supposed to start hating the Russian authorities if they are now saving the Russians???

Prohibit pharmaceutical companies from stopping or reducing the supply of any drugs to Russia. I am talking personally to Eli Lilly who decided to do that. For example, Strattera, which I take, is the only drug that helps me. Without it I will not be able to work, sleep, or resist, and it is now under threat of being canceled from deliveries to Russia. Are you crazy? Do you have a brain? Do you have a conscience? Is that how you support the resistance in Russia? Dear Eli Lilly, I swear I'll get to you - in Russia, not a single major city has this drug left. 

The West should stop mindlessly spewing sanctions - please, offer something in return, help the Russian society, help the country from which you have been sucking juices all these years!

I'm watching your actions and I don't understand. Do you want a new Nazi country at your border? What do you want?

Do you understand that if you do not come up with better plans now, then you will have a new military junta or a new terrorist state at your border? If you don’t talk some sense into China and help Russia, then China will have free hands in Central Asia, China will start (economically and not only) snatching off resource-rich pieces of Russia, which could lead to another military conflict and a new threat of nuclear war. The Russian invasion shook the whole world and opened up many sores. This needs to be stopped; we must bring peace back before it is too late.

Do not cut Russia from the Western world! Hit the Russian economy, but don't renounce the Russians. Show, not just say, that you understand whose war this is. Give the Russians a real choice that they have not had for the past 20 years. Bring back all those features - Spotify, PayPal, or at least Brawl Stars and use them as propaganda! Now you are the ones who are killing the opportunity for Russians to earn money and communicate with the world. Use the opportunities to the fullest, let the Russian authorities cut off the opportunities of the Russians to earn money and communicate, not you!

There is one more point.
You say that you want to influence the Russian elites, but for some reason Russian big businessmen, officials and security forces, after the start of the war, hide their families in your countries. What does it mean? Are you hitting the Russians, primarily the opposition middle class, but at the same time barely touching the real perpetrators of the war?

You host and hide the Russian financial elite and act incredibly stupid. Before that, in Russia it was necessary to seek a balance between the financial and power elites, but now the financial bloc has fled and the only bloc remaining is a power bloc. Are you nuts? Can you imagine what Russia will do having a lot of smart and talented programmers who are now at the mercy of the siloviki and do not have the opportunity to leave Russia? Beat siloviki with sanctions. Someone smart from the West has already said that Putin despises the oligarchs, that he respects only his closest group of siloviki. Hit them.

Show the Russians what Putin's inner circle and his propagandists in the West are hiding. Start an information war to discredit the authorities. Your  beautiful words will not get to those who don't hear them, being in the Kremlin information bubble. Force the Russians to know the truth, leave them no choice. And offer them help, support and a clear plan of action.

Who are your strategists? Are these not obvious facts?

Dear West, wake up and understand that Russia is not Europe, or the USA, or China, or Brazil. Russia is Russia, damn it! Find good specialists and figure out what to do now before it's too late!

Show the Russians what Putin's inner circle and his propagandists in the West are hiding. Start an information war to discredit the authorities. Your  beautiful words will not get to those who don't hear them, being in the Kremlin information bubble. Force the Russians to know the truth, leave them no choice. And offer them help, support and a clear plan of action.

Who are your strategists? Are these not obvious facts?

Dear West, wake up and understand that Russia is not Europe, or the USA, or China, or Brazil. Russia is Russia, damn it! Find good specialists and figure out what to do now before it's too late!
Dear Europe, wake up! Come up with humane and cunning ways to save the world from Putin. Europe, you understand that this is the second time you are facing a migration crisis, because the US and Russia are fighting for something. How much longer will this continue, how much longer will you allow it and endure it? Open your eyes Europe, look what's happening! And don't fall for the stupid "We will increase military spending" hysterics that will only make the US and the militarists rich. INCREASE SOCIAL INJECTION, DO NOT INCREASE YOUR MILITARY BUDGET! EUROPE, THIS IS BENEFICIAL TO THE US, THIS IS WHAT THEY WANT, STOP!!! Invest in soft power (Europe, you don’t really have it, find specialists there, God!), invest in education, science and healthcare both at home and abroad in order to avoid future migration and energy crises at home. Europe, wake up and think of something other than endless talk of "concern", "support" and "admiration". Become a real force, after all!

Europe, these are hard times for you. But please don't let it bring you down. Do not let yourself be deceived, as the Russians have been deceived. Do not let yourself be dragged into the ultra-right abyss, please. Look at Russia, look at what nationalism and flirting with ultra-right groups are doing to society. Be strong, Europe. Look at the struggle of the Ukrainians who have been robbed of their homes, loved ones, and relatives by Russia. Europe, the future of the whole world and, therefore, your own future, depends on whether you are able to persevere now. Remember this!

By saving Ukrainians and helping Russians now, you are saving yourselves in the future, Europeans. Because the U.S. will emerge victorious from the situation, hardly affected by what is going on. And what about you? It all depends on you, citizens of European countries!

It is very important to say this: Ukrainians, we are miserable. Please accept our sorrow. We have let down not just you, but also Belarusians, Kazakhs, Georgians, so, all nations from post-soviet territories. We have let down even ourselves. But we don't give up and we won't. All those involved in your grief should be punished to the fullest extent of the law.

And, good Lord, close the sky over Ukraine.
